=free-hdl-license README=

HDL designs are conceptually like software source code:  They're a
human-readable format for expressing functionality, which is mechanically
converted into a format which more directly implements that function.  If the
design is being used with reconfigurable hardware (e.g. an FPGA), the
synthesized bitfile is loaded an run much like ordinary software in a
stored-program computer.  While they might embody some technique protected by
patent law, the designs themselves are protected by copyright. 

There are enough differences, though, that I'm not sure how well the common
existing free software licenses (or other software licenses) map to HDL
designs.  Words like "compile," "link," "library," "object code," and "header
file" don't translate exactly.  In general, HDL designs can be used to make
either reconfigurable logic device bitfiles or permanently-fixed hardware.
When the end product is an ASIC, the software thought model (and licenses) may
not apply as well.

The goal of this project is to identify clarifications or improvements which
would be helpful for licensing Free Software in HDL forms.

If you are interested, please look at the following:

* OpenCores [http://opencores.org/forum,Other,0,3533 forum discussion of LGPL]
* OpenCores essay "[http://opencores.org/articles,1243319436 Open Source for Hardware]" 
* TAPR [http://www.tapr.org/ohl.html Open Hardware License (OHL)]
* Technocrat [http://technocrat.net/d/2007/2/5/14355/ forum discussion of OHL], grep for RTL and HDL
* Article "[http://www.tapr.org/Ackermann_Open_Source_Hardware_Article_2009.pdf Toward Open Source Hardware]" 

This project itself is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License right now.
Additionally, it probably makes sense to release any license we come
up with under more liberal terms.  Only contribute to the project if
you agree to the following: "Eric Anderson has my consent to release
any material added by me to the free-hdl-license project into the
public domain, and/or to offer it under any Creative Commons, free
software, free documentation, or open source license." 

The above seems like a good solution to me.  If you don't like it,
contact me and suggest something better!

Now, [https://github.com/ewa/free-hdl-license/wiki go to the Wiki]!